Artificial transplantation or transplanted organ are accepted procedures for incurable diseases. Around 5,000 organ transplants
are successfully performed in a year. However, more than 6,500 people that are on the waiting list for an organ 
will die in that same time (American Transplant Foundation, 2016). Due to the shortage of sufficient organs and the several associated 
complications that can occur during the procedure. scientists has been focusing on the invention and improvement of tissue engineering.

 Studies indicates that the concept of tissue engineering emerged after the successful implantation of a mouse tumor cell into a chick 
 embryo. After this, several research organizations turned their attention to the possibility of applying this procedure to human 
 patients, except with lab-made tissues and organs. In the early 1980s, scientists were able to create artificial skin for the purpose 
 of treating extensive burns (Kim and Evans, 2005). Today, artificial skin is being applied in hospitals as a recognized treatment for
 burn patients.

Tissue engineering uses and synthesizes theories, principles, and methods of bioengineering, material science, and life sciences for
the production and restoration of tissues.The goal of this process is to renew tissues and restore the affected organ through
cell implantation and matrix incorporation into the patient (Kim and Evans, 2005). Tissue engineering uses cells, scaffold, 
and growth factor to regenerate new tissues. This does not necessarily mean that all three tools are applied to every organ. 
For example, bone tissue engineering only needs morphogenetic protein to regenerate, while dermal tissue is renewed without 
cell seeding and growth factor delivery (Ikada, 2006).


There are many areas where active research is conducted on tissue engineering. These areas include studies of cardiovascular 
tissues engineering with an emphasis on artificial heart muscle, blood vessels, valves, ventricles and the whole bioartificial heart.
In addition researchers are also focusing on components of the musculoskeletal system such as bone, cartilage, skeletal muscle and 
tendons. The urinary system that consists of kidneys, urinary bladder, ureters and urethras is also included in tissue engineering. 
Tissue engineering of the respiratory system has focused on the production of artificial tracheas and artificial lung tissue. 
Tissue engineering for the digestive system has been focused on the development of artificial liver tissue, pancreas, intestine tissue 
and esophageal tissue. Finally, researchers are also working on the development of artificial skin and attempting to solve issues 
related with central nervous system. 









